Improvements to CoreCLR Building, Debugging, and Testing Documentation (#75569)
dotnet/runtime: docs/workflow/README.md

| ARM64 | &#x2714; | &#x2714; | &#x2714; |          |
|       | [Requirements](requirements/windows-requirements.md) | [Requirements](requirements/linux-requirements.md) | [Requirements](requirements/macos-requirements.md) | [Requirements](requirements/freebsd-requirements.md)

Additionally, keep in mind that cloning the full history of this repo takes roughly 400-500 MB of network transfer, inflating to a repository that can consume somewhere between 1 to 1.5 GB. A build of the repo can take somewhere between 10 and 20 GB of space for a single OS and Platform configuration depending on the portions of the product built. This might increase over time, so consider this to be a minimum bar for working with this codebase.

## Getting Yourself Started

The runtime repo can be built from a regular, non-administrator command prompt, from the root of the repo.

> The repository currently consists of three different major parts:

Reviewer: wouldn't it make sense to separate coreclr and mono here? the'yre in their own trees, have their own build subsets etc.

Reviewer: eh, it's clear below

This was a concise introduction and now it's time to show the specifics of building specific subsets in any given supported platform, since most likely you will want to customize your builds according to what component(s) you're working on, as well as how you configured your build environment. We have links to instructions depending on your needs [in this section](#full-instructions-on-building-and-testing-the-runtime-repo).

* For instructions on how to edit code and make changes, see [Editing and Debugging](editing-and-debugging.md).
* For instructions on how to debug CoreCLR, see [Debugging CoreCLR](/docs/workflow/debugging/coreclr/debugging-coreclr.md).
* For instructions on using GitHub Codespaces, see [Codespaces](/docs/workflow/Codespaces.md).

## Configurations and Subsets

You may need to build the tree in a combination of configurations. This section explains why.

<!-- LINK-UPDATES -->
A quick reminder of some concepts -- see the [glossary](/docs/project/glossary.md) for more on these:

* **Debug Configuration** -- Non-optimized code.  Asserts are enabled.
* **Checked Configuration** -- Optimized code. Asserts are enabled.  _Only relevant to CoreCLR runtime._

> * **Release Configuration** -- Optimized code. Asserts are disabled. Runs at the best speed, and suitable for performance profiling. You will have limited debugging experience with this one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Release Configuration** -- Optimized code. Asserts are disabled. Runs at the best speed, and suitable for performance profiling. This will impact the debugging experience due to compiler optimizations and make understanding what the debugging is showing difficult to reason about relative to source code.
```

It isn't "limited" rather it is degraded. I am being pedantic here, but my point is you can debug just fine and all the tools will work as designed. The issue is the compiler has optimized the code to a point where debugging may be more difficult.

* **CoreLib** (also known as System.Private.CoreLib) is the lowest level managed library. It has a special relationship to the runtimes and therefore it must be built in the matching configuration, e.g., if the runtime you are using was built in a Debug configuration, this must be in a Debug configuration. The runtime agnostic code for this library can be found at [src/libraries/System.Private.CoreLib/src](/src/libraries/System.Private.CoreLib/src/README.md).
* **Libraries** is the bulk of the dlls that are oblivious to the configuration that runtimes and CoreLib were built in. They are most debuggable when built in a Debug configuration, and happily, they still run sufficiently fast in that configuration that it's acceptable for development work. The code lives under [src/libraries](/src/libraries).

<!-- TODO: Provide a list of the possible subsets, since right now it's all up to one's own knowledge and guessing. -->

> To build just one part of the repo, you add the `-subset` flag with the subset you wish to build to the root build script _(build.cmd/sh)_. Note that you can specify more than one by linking them with the `+` operator (e.g. `-subset clr+libs` would build CoreCLR and the libraries).

Reviewer 3: To spare contributors extra typing it might be worth emphasizing that the "-subset" option doesn't actually need to be specified (AFAIK you can easily <code>build clr+libs</code>).
